- There are multiple ways to interact with AWS.
So far you have used the web interface.
Let's explore other ways to interact with AWS
and also take a closer look on how to set up AWS CLI
as it will be required for our development set up.
AWS provides services such as S3 for storage,
dynamoDB, cloud nine for development
or Lambda for servers applications.
To get access to this services,
we need to make HTTP requests to API endpoints.
But, how do we know which APIs to call?
We can browse the AWS documentation
Click on a service such as dynamoDB, click on actions,
expand the list and see the signature of an API
and if you look at the create table,
you can see an example request.
For this particular one,
we also need to provide authorization hiders,
remember the access key
and the secret from the previous video.
Creating such a request manually seems tedious,
as there is a lot of room for error.
The easier way is using the AWS management console,
which you already had experience with
once you created the developer account.
Management console behind the scenes
is actually consuming the AWS API.
But what if you need to create multiple tables
in different regions.
Then things become harder.
If we need to perform repetitive tasks,
the better option is to use the AWS CLI
or command line interface.
It also uses the API behind the scenes to interact with AWS.
Using AWS CLI, it is easy to control multiple AWS services
and automate them through scripts.
We also have AWS toolkit, which is an add on for ID.
Toolkit simplifies management
or some AWS resources
and uses AWS CLI in the background.
We have seen four options to interact with AWS.
However, none of these will be used by our code.
Instead, you should use AWS SDK
for the language that you're using.
To proceed with the local setup, we need to install CLI.
Setting up the CLI
will be specific to your operating system.
You can find those instructions on AWS documentation,
just make sure to install the latest version.
Once the CLI is installed,
you can validate your install by running shell AWS version.
Configuration, is really easy.
Just type AWS configure,
and you will be prompted with four inputs.
First two are the access key
and secret you could figured previously.
Next you can set the default region
because AWS CLI needs to know
what regional end points to send your requests to.
You must specify either now
or explicitly in commands you provide later.
List of region codes are available on the web.
Finally, for the output format,
you can leave the default one, which is Jason.
Let's test out our configuration
by typing in AWS Lambda list functions.
We should get an empty list like you can see here.
AWS CLI is one of the easiest ways to access the API calls
that you need to make.
It is not as limited as the management console
that can change over time,
and it is easier to document and ultimate
to use across several services and operating systems.